Hi there,
and welcome to this module in our Monitoring and Event
Response on AWS for DevOps Engineers course.
My name's Mike Brown, and in this module,
we're going to be working with Amazon CloudWatch and CloudTrail.
We're going to begin this module by introducing Amazon CloudTrail and
how we can use CloudTrail to log events to CloudWatch and how we can
use CloudWatch to work with those events.
We'll also take a look at we can use CloudWatch to
centralize CloudTrail log management.
So let's begin by introducing Amazon CloudTrail before going on to
look at CloudTrail and CloudWatch integration.
So, what is CloudTrail?
Well, fundamentally, CloudTrail records and stores events.
But not all events.
Specifically here, we're talking about administrative events.
So any administrative logging or administrative API action,
for example, will picked up by CloudTrail.
These will include events instigated by your IAM users,
IAM roles, or events that are instigated by AWS resources,
such as Lambda functions and EC2 instances.
Although CloudTrail has its own dashboard where we can see some events,
it's usually good practice, particularly for long‑term analysis,
that we integrate CloudTrail with a more permanent store like S3 or CloudWatch.
This would include storing CloudTrail logs in CloudWatch,
but also using CloudWatch Events to monitor for specific
CloudTrail events and automate actions based on them.
We can provide access to CloudTrail information for the console,
or by using one of the many SDKs that AWS supports,
you can access CloudTrail information programmatically.
When working CloudTrail, there's a few things that we should know.
First of all, we should know that CloudTrail is always on.
It's enabled by default for every AWS account inside your organization.
CloudTrail itself will keep an event history so we can view,
search,
and through which can download events to use locally or
to import into a third‑party service.
CloudTrail can collect events from multiple regions in a single place,
and CloudTrail has integrity checks built in so that we can prove integrity
of our logs and ensure they haven't been tampered with.
Finally,
it's worth knowing that all logs created by CloudTrail are encrypted by default.
Now there are different types of CloudTrail events that we can view.
The first type of event is a data event.
These include activities such as S3 object‑level API activity
and the invocation of Lambda functions.
We can also monitor management events.
These are a list of all interactions from all administrative tools.
So there's no hiding from CloudTrail.
Whatever tool you're using to access your AWS accounts,
CloudTrail will be logging your activity. One particularly useful
component of CloudTrail is Insights events. Insights events capture
unusual activity. They are logged when CloudTrail detects unusual
activity against your APIs,
so something that's out of the normal for your typical administrative action.
Unlike the other type of events for CloudTrail,
Insights events are disabled by default,
and you'll need to enable them if you want to view them, but there is an
additional charge. So only enable Insights events if you think you'll find
them useful. When working with CloudTrail,
we create trails. By default, CloudTrail will keep 90 days of events
available for you to view and search through the console.
If you want to view data of a longer period than this or work
with that data using more specialist tools,
then we need to create them on trails. Trails deliver CloudTrail
event information to S3 or to CloudWatch. Once we have the events in
S3 or CloudWatch, we can use those events for long‑term analysis.
Trails can collect events for individual accounts or for all AWS
accounts in your organization.
Take a minute to think about your own auditing requirements.
Would CloudTrail work for you?
What type of events would you want to capture short term, and what
type of events would you want to capture long term?
There are lots of use cases for CloudTrail.
They help us to maintain compliance by allowing us to search for anomalous
events that might go against our compliance requirements, they're an important
part of our security analysis, they help us to monitor S3 activity, and are
really useful in operational troubleshooting by allowing us to see how our
administrative teams are interacting with our AWS accounts, what type of
services they're using, what type of APIs calls they're using, and all of this
information can be useful in helping us identify administrative actions that
are best suited for automation instead of manual configuration. Another good
use case for CloudTrail is the ability to detect unusual activity. Something
out of the normal occurs, CloudTrail registers the event, and that itself can trigger automation to alert us when usual activity occurs.